# About
TL;DR Python application that will simulate the effects of admission control on a single cell in a mobile cellular network.

## Detailed description:

There is a single Base Station at the center which serves a radius of 10 km. The users can appear anywhere within the 10 km radius and will make calls at random during the simulation. Once they are connected to the base station, their call/session will occupy a traffic channel until it ends (either because the call ends properly or because it drops).
The goal of this project is to track different statistics for the system and monitor the effect of changing certain parameters.
Additionally, to improve the service, Admission Control is introduced in the system which make it easier to model the interference effects of additional users.

This report gives the results generated by the simulator program and consists of two main cases:
1. Case I: Without using Admission Control
2. Case II: Using Admission Control

The following statistics are to be reported every 2 mins and finally at the end of the simulation time of 2 hours:
• Number of call attempts not counting retries
• Number of call attempts including retries
• Number of dropped calls
• Number of blocked calls due to signal strength
• Number of blocked calls due to channel capacity
• Number of successfully completed calls
• Number of calls in progress at any given time
• Number of failed calls (blocks + drops)
• Current cell radius (distance between the basestation and the most distant connected user)

## Key Results:
Case I: Without using Admission Control
1. When Admission control is not used, following is the Final Report for a total of 1000 users in the system:
2. When Admission control is not used, following is the Final Report for a total of 10000 users in the system:
Case II: Using Admission Control
1. When Admission control is used, following is the Final Report for a total of 1000 users in the system:
2. When Admission control is used, following is the Final Report for a total of 10000 users in the system:

## FAQs:

## Q1: What is the ratio of the number of dropped calls to the number of completed calls? What is the main reason for call failure? Are blocks for channel capacity?

Ans:
As per Fig 1,(see pdf) The ratio of the number of dropped calls to the number of completed calls is the following:
7064/2953 = 2.39
The main reason for call failure in this case was the high number of dropped packets due to insufficient SINR. Due to the high level of interference from many users at or near the edges of the cell, the SINR of user reduces and thus the failed SINR tests result in packets being dropped during active calls.
The blocks are not for channel capacity but are for inadequate RSL of users i.e. due to signal strength. The blocks due to channel capacity will not be present in the system since the number of channels available stay adequate due to high drops in active calls.



## Q2: Change the values of Cd and Ci to 20 and 15 respectively. What happens to your statistics? What is the ratio of dropped calls to completed calls now? How has the number of blocked calls changed? What is the effect on the cell radius?

Ans:
After changing the values of Cd and Ci to 20 and 15 respectively, i.e. after implementing Admission Control, the statistics are shown in Fig 3 (refer pdf for fig. and stats)
As we can see, The ratio of the number of dropped calls to the number of completed calls is the following now:
2214/2828 = 0.78
Thus, the ratio has improved significantly from the previous case where admission control wasn’t used.
The number of blocked calls due to signal strength has increased considerably from 1728 to 6680. This is because of the reduction in EIRP of pilot when channel usage crosses threshold. When the threshold is crossed, the signal strength reduction causes users at the edges of the cell to be blocked due to low signal strength, and thereby the overall interference level goes down due to this.
The Cell Radius has changed from 9229.29 meters (9.2 km) to 5322.11 meters (5.32 km). This is due to the shrinking of the cell due to admission control. The dropped users will usually come from the edges of the cell so the cell will appear to shrink and thus the distance of the farthest user will be reduced, thus reducing the effective cell radius.


## Q3: Increase the number of users to 10000 and rerun your simulation, first with no admission control (i.e. Cd and Ci set to 57 and 0 respectively) and then with the Cd and Ci values from Q2. What happens to the blocks due to channel capacity? How do they change when the Cd and Ci values change?

Ans:
When the number of users is increased to 10000 users, these are the statistics:(refer pdf)

Firstly, when Admission control was not used, the blocks due to channel capacity were increased to significantly high value of 5825. This is because of such a high user count since 10000 users will be far more than what the maximum number of channels could provide for a reasonable GOS.

When Admission control was implemented, the blocks due to channel capacity were reduced to zero. This happened because, the channel capacity was managed efficiently by admission control by dropping off users from the edges and thus the number of channels were made sufficient by limiting the number of users demanding those channels.
